.TH QOTD.CONF 5 2016-01-29 "qotd 0.10.3" "System Manager's Manual"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.SH NAME
qotd.conf \- The QOTD daemon configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR /etc/qotd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqotdd\fP(8) reads configuration options from \fI/etc/qotd.conf\fP, or some other file specified by the \fB-c\fP argument. This file contains lines of keyword-arguments pairs, which describe how the daemon is to behave. Empty lines or those starting with `#' are ignored and treated as comments. Optionally, you can surround your arguments with single or double quotes in order to represent arguments containing spaces. However you cannot specify escape sequences inside the quotes.
.P
The supported keywords and their possible meanings are as follows. Keywords and their arguments are case-insensitive, except for filenames. Some options take a \fIboolean\fP, meaning you can write either `yes', `true', or `1' to enable an option, or `no', `false', or `0' to disable it.
.TP
.BR TransportProtocol
Which transport protocol to use. This setting is either `udp' or `tcp'. By default TCP is used.
.TP
.BR InternetProtocol
Which IP protocol to use. This setting is either `ipv4', `ipv6', or `both'. The default behavior is to listen on both IPv4 and IPv6.
.TP
.BR Port
Specifies an alternate port to listen on. The default value is `17', which is the port specified by RFC 865.
.TP
.BR StrictChecking
When this option is enabled, the daemon will perform checks on the permissions of files, and will refuse to start if the files are writeable by those other than the calling user. This argument is almost equivlent to the \fB--lax\fP argument, but obviously does not apply to configuration file, since it must be read before this option can be extracted.
The default option is `yes'.
.TP
.BR DropPrivileges
Takes a boolean. If this option is set, then once a connection is established, the program will drop privileges and run itself as the \fIdaemon\fP user. However, if \fBPidFile\fP is set, the daemon will check the permissions on the directory of the containing directory. If the program will lack the permissions to delete the pid file, the daemon will quit.
The default option is `yes'.
.TP
.BR PidFile
Specifies what pid file is to be used by the daemon. If this value is `none' or `/dev/null', then no pid file is written. The default is \fI/run/qotd.pid\fP, but if there is no \fI/run\fP directory, then \fI/var/run/qotd.pid\fP will be used instead.
.TP
.BR RequirePidFile
If the daemon is unable to write to the pid file for any reason and this option is set, then the daemon will quit. Otherwise, the attempt to produce a pid file will be treated as an warning. This setting is ignored if \fBPidFile\fP is set to `none'.
This option is a boolean, and the default argument is `yes'.
.TP
.BR JournalFile
This option specifies what file the daemon uses to log status messages. If this file is set to `-', then the program's \fIstandard output\fP is used, and if the value is set to `none' or `/dev/null', then the journal output is suppressed. The default behavior is to use \fIstandard output\fP as the journal.
.TP
.BR QuotesFile
The source of the quotations to be displayed to the user. Note that any null bytes (`\\0') found in the quotes file will be read as spaces instead. The default is to use the pre-installed quotes located at \fI/usr/share/qotd/quotes.txt\fP.
.TP
.BR QuoteDivider
How quotes in the quotes file are separated. There are currently three possible options: `line', `percent', or `file'.
If the value is `line', then each non-empty line is treated as a quotation to be possibly transmitted.
If `percent' is set, then the program is instructed to separate each quote with a line that has only a percent sign (`%') on it. More specifically, the program looks for a sequence of newline, percent sign, and newline, and separates the string there. This is the same format that is used by \fBfortune\fP(6).
If `file' is used, then the whole file is treated as one quote. The default argument is `line'.
.TP
.BR PadQuotes
Whether to place whitespace around the quotes to make them look nicer. When this is disabled, the daemon will only transmit the quotation itself.
This option is a boolean, and the default argument is `yes'.
.TP
.BR DailyQuotes
Whether to choose a random quote every day, or for every visit. If this option is set, then the same randomly-chosen quotation will be provided for all visits on the same day. Otherwise, each visit will yield a different quotation.
This option is a boolean, and the default argument is `yes'.
.TP
.BR AllowBigQuotes
RFC 865 specifies that quotes should be no bigger than 512 bytes. If this option is set, then this limit is ignored. Otherwise, quotes are automatically truncated to meet the byte limit. The default behavior is to disable this option.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBqotdd\fP(8)
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Ammon Smith (ammon.i.smith@gmail.com)
